I'd like to start talking about
Risk Management Frameworks with a National Institute of Standards and Technology,
Risk Management Framework, or the NIST, RMF.
We'll start here, because I think it represents some of
the best practices associated with risk management.
But at the same time goes well beyond what I think of as the risk management function,
and actually, bleeds into other governance risk and compliance roles.
For context, NIST developed this framework to be used by federal systems and
contractors in an attempt to have
consistent classification of controls across many systems.
If you look at the graphic,
there are number of steps defined in the middle with
corresponding guidance documentation defined on the exterior rings.
Combined all of this information is quite large,
so federal agencies and contractors,
often have individuals dedicated to federal compliance,
but I'd like to look at a few of the key aspects.
Let's start at categorizing information in systems and selecting controls.
System categorization refers to placing
information or systems into predefined categories;
low, medium, or high.
With each category designed to be reflective of the overall impact
that system or information might have on the organization or individuals.
In other organizations, we refer to these things as business impact analysis.
We then select controls appropriate for
the level of categorization and those controls are
contained in the various policy documents
reflected in that risk management framework diagram.
Let's look at how that operates.
Special publication 800-63-3, which is digital identity guidelines,
provides an overview of working with digital identities and authentication methods.
Now, that document refers to special publication 800-63a,
which set standards for how system users are allowed to prove their identity based
on the system or
information classification we discussed in the categorization step earlier.
Based on the classification,
system owners chooses specific identity assurance level,
either 1, 2 or 3,
with one being the least stringent.
From there, we can refer to 800-63b to understand
which corresponding authenticator assurance levels should
be used and what that means in terms of specific controls.
If you're looking at passwords for instance,
they're permitted under AAO1 and 2,
but all of those passwords must be at least eight characters in length.
You can probably tell from this,
it can be a really complex system.
But I also want to point out that here's an example of where I believe the RMF,
it goes well beyond risk management.
All of the work that I just described is typically reserved for compliance professionals.
They are generally responsible for ensuring that controls meet specific standards.
Now, let's talk about the implement and assess steps.
Once you've selected controls,
you obviously need to implement them.
That's really a job for our operational security counterparts.
Once complete, our next step is assessing them.
Here's another area where the RMF goes beyond simple risk-management.
Assessing controls, as we discussed earlier,
is traditionally the role of a Governance Professional.
But then this risk management framework is not
necessarily designed to serve as a playbook for risk management activities,
it's really designed to reduce risk.
In that way it operates to support a number of
GRC activities and makes reference to risk management standards where necessary.
The last component of
the risk management framework that we'll discuss is system authorization.
This is why I like to think,
that the real risk management work happens,
this is work that's traditionally done by risk managers.
Here's where the target system is authorized to operate by
considering the totality of security controls implemented throughout the NIST,
risk management framework process and the residual risk
the system creates for the organization, the government,
and individuals keeping in mind,
that the framework was really developed with a goal of creating
consistent controls and security standards for federal agencies.
All of the steps for authorization are detailed in NIST special publication 800-37.
I think all of those service are pretty good guide for
understanding the steps that you need to perform in risk management.
Task 1, authorization package that roughly equates to identifying risks.
Then you'll analyze the risk,
under step 2, you will respond to the risk,
you will treat the risk,
which we'll talk about in just a little while and then finally,
we'll report the risk to senior leadership.